[Doc] Document Kernel Templates (#1328)
oneapi-src/oneDPL: documentation/library_guide/kernel_templates/esimd/radix_sort.rst

- Some combinations of types and ``kt::kernel_param`` values lead to wrong results starting with `20231219 <https://dgpu-docs.intel.com/releases/stable_775_20_20231219.html>`_ rolling release of the GPU driver:

  - ``radix_sort`` with ``sizeof(key_type)=8``, ``param.workgroup_size = 32``, and ``param.data_per_workitem>=288``
  - ``radix_sort_by_key`` with ``4 <= sizeof(key_type) + sizeof(value_type) <= 8``, ``param.workgroup_size = 32`` and ``param.data_per_workitem >= 288``
  - ``radix_sort_by_key`` with ``9 <= sizeof(key_type) + sizeof(value_type) <= 10``, ``param.workgroup_size = 32`` and ``param.data_per_workitem >= 224``
  - ``radix_sort_by_key`` with ``sizeof(key_type) + sizeof(value_type) > 10``, ``param.workgroup_size = 32`` and ``param.data_per_workitem = 64``
  - ``radix_sort_by_key`` with ``sizeof(key_type) + sizeof(value_type) = 12``, ``param.workgroup_size = 64`` and ``param.data_per_workitem = 96``

>   - ``radix_sort_by_key`` with ``sizeof(key_type) + sizeof(value_type) = 16``, ``param.workgroup_size = 64`` and ``param.data_per_workitem = 64``

Author: Given the results of the testing with the latest rolling release, I am considering setting "32" as a non-supported value for workgroup_size, because there are too many failures is no a simple pattern to describe them, despite the fact that the overall pass rate is ~94%.

Below are the tables with the test results. DPWI is data_per_workitem, WGS is workgroup_size, 1B is 1 byte data, 2B is 2 byte data type and so on. Different types with the same number of bytes (e.g. double and uint64_t), different key-value combinations (e.g. 2B-key and 4B-value, 4B-key and 2B-value) are grouped together: failure in one test is shown as failure of all the combinations.

``radix_sort``, ``WGS=32``:

DPWI | WGS | 1B | 2B | 4B | 8B
-- | -- | -- | -- | -- | --
32 | 32 | pass | pass | pass | pass
64 | 32 | pass | pass | pass | pass
96 | 32 | pass | pass | pass | pass
128 | 32 | pass | pass | pass | pass
160 | 32 | pass | pass | pass | pass
192 | 32 | pass | pass | pass | pass
224 | 32 | pass | pass | pass | pass
256 | 32 | pass | pass | pass | pass
288 | 32 | pass | pass | pass | fail
320 | 32 | pass | pass | pass | fail
352 | 32 | pass | pass | pass | fail
384 | 32 | pass | pass | pass | fail
416 | 32 | pass | pass | pass | fail
448 | 32 | pass | pass | pass | fail
480 | 32 | pass | pass | pass | fail
512 | 32 | pass | pass | pass | skip

``radix_sort``, ``WGS=64``:

DPWI | WGS | 1B | 2B | 4B | 8B
-- | -- | -- | -- | -- | --
32 | 64 | pass | pass | pass | pass
64 | 64 | pass | pass | pass | pass
96 | 64 | pass | pass | pass | pass
128 | 64 | pass | pass | pass | pass
160 | 64 | pass | pass | pass | pass
192 | 64 | pass | pass | pass | pass
224 | 64 | pass | pass | pass | pass
256 | 64 | pass | pass | pass | skip
288 | 64 | pass | pass | pass | skip
320 | 64 | pass | pass | pass | skip
352 | 64 | pass | pass | pass | skip
384 | 64 | pass | pass | pass | skip
416 | 64 | pass | pass | pass | skip
448 | 64 | pass | pass | pass | skip
480 | 64 | pass | pass | pass | skip
512 | 64 | pass | pass | skip | skip

``radix_sort_by_key``, ``WGS=32``:

DPWI | WGS | 2B (1B+1B) | 3B (2B+1B) | 4B (2B+2B) | 5B (32B+8B) | 6B (4B+2B) | 8B (4B+4B) | 9B (8B+1B) | 10B (8B+2B) | 12B (8B+4B) | 16B (8B+8B)
-- | -- | -- | -- | -- | -- | -- | -- | -- | -- | -- | --
32 | 32 | pass | pass | pass | pass | pass | pass | pass | pass | pass | pass
64 | 32 | pass | pass | pass | pass | pass | pass | pass | pass | pass | fail
96 | 32 | pass | pass | pass | pass | pass | pass | pass | pass | fail | fail
128 | 32 | pass | pass | pass | pass | pass | pass | pass | pass | pass | pass
160 | 32 | pass | pass | pass | pass | pass | pass | pass | pass | pass | pass
192 | 32 | pass | pass | pass | pass | pass | pass | pass | pass | pass | fail
224 | 32 | pass | pass | pass | pass | pass | pass | fail | fail | fail | skip
256 | 32 | pass | pass | pass | pass | pass | pass | fail | fail | fail | skip
288 | 32 | pass | pass | pass | pass | pass | pass | fail | fail | fail | skip
320 | 32 | pass | pass | pass | pass | fail | pass | fail | fail | pass | skip
352 | 32 | pass | pass | pass | pass | fail | pass | fail | fail | skip | skip
384 | 32 | pass | pass | fail | fail | fail | fail | fail | fail | skip | skip
416 | 32 | pass | pass | fail | pass | pass | fail | fail | skip | skip | skip
448 | 32 | pass | pass | fail | fail | fail | fail | skip | skip | skip | skip
480 | 32 | pass | pass | fail | pass | fail | fail | skip | skip | skip | skip
512 | 32 | pass | pass | pass | fail | pass | skip | skip | skip | skip | skip

``radix_sort_by_key``, ``WGS=64``:

DPWI | WGS | 2B (1B+1B) | 3B (2B+1B) | 4B (2B+2B) | 5B (32B+8B) | 6B (4B+2B) | 8B (4B+4B) | 9B (8B+1B) | 10B (8B+2B) | 12B (8B+4B) | 16B (8B+8B)
-- | -- | -- | -- | -- | -- | -- | -- | -- | -- | -- | --
32 | 64 | pass | pass | pass | pass | pass | pass | pass | pass | pass | pass
64 | 64 | pass | pass | pass | pass | pass | pass | pass | pass | pass | fail
96 | 64 | pass | pass | pass | pass | pass | pass | pass | pass | fail | pass
128 | 64 | pass | pass | pass | pass | pass | pass | pass | pass | pass | skip
160 | 64 | pass | pass | pass | pass | pass | pass | pass | pass | pass | skip
192 | 64 | pass | pass | pass | pass | pass | pass | pass | pass | skip | skip
224 | 64 | pass | pass | pass | pass | pass | pass | pass | skip | skip | skip
256 | 64 | pass | pass | pass | pass | pass | skip | skip | skip | skip | skip
288 | 64 | pass | pass | pass | pass | pass | skip | skip | skip | skip | skip
320 | 64 | pass | pass | pass | pass | pass | skip | skip | skip | skip | skip
352 | 64 | pass | pass | pass | pass | skip | skip | skip | skip | skip | skip
384 | 64 | pass | pass | pass | skip | skip | skip | skip | skip | skip | skip
416 | 64 | pass | pass | pass | skip | skip | skip | skip | skip | skip | skip
448 | 64 | pass | pass | pass | skip | skip | skip | skip | skip | skip | skip
480 | 64 | pass | pass | skip | skip | skip | skip | skip | skip | skip | skip
512 | 64 | pass | pass | skip | skip | skip | skip | skip | skip | skip | skip

Radix Sort
##########

> 

Reviewer: I do. In the DPC++/C++ Compiler docs, we have an intro sentence for our reference topics. Example: https://www.intel.com/content/www/us/en/docs/dpcpp-cpp-compiler/developer-guide-reference/2024-0/align.html

> 

Author: I've moved the description prior to the code snippet.

> 

Reviewer: Thank you.

.. code:: cpp

   // Defined in header <oneapi/dpl/experimental/kernel_templates>

   namespace esimd {

   template <bool IsAscending = true, std::uint8_t RadixBits = 8, typename KernelParam, typename Range>
   sycl::event
   radix_sort(sycl::queue q, Range&& rng, KernelParam param); // (1)

   template <bool IsAscending = true,  std::uint8_t RadixBits = 8, typename KernelParam, typename Iter>
   sycl::event
   radix_sort(sycl::queue q, Iter first, Iter last, KernelParam param); // (2)

   template <bool IsAscending = true, std::uint8_t RadixBits = 8, typename KernelParam, typename KeysRng, typename ValsRng>
   sycl::event
   radix_sort_by_key(sycl::queue q, KeysRng&& keys_rng, ValsRng&& vals_rng, KernelParam param); // (3)

   template <bool IsAscending = true, std::uint8_t RadixBits = 8, typename KernelParam, typename KeysIter, typename ValsIter>
   sycl::event
   radix_sort_by_key(sycl::queue q, KeysIter keys_first, KeysIter keys_last, ValsIter vals_first, KernelParam param); // (4)

   } // namespace esimd

> The functions sort data using the radix sort algorithm. For a small number of elements to sort, they invoke a single-work-group implementation; otherwise, they use a multiple-work-group implementation based on the Onesweep [#fnote1]_ algorithm variant.

Author: Done

|                                                      | - ``oneapi::dpl::experimental::ranges::views::subrange`` (1,3)   |
|                                                      | - USM pointer (2,4)                                              |
|                                                      | - ``oneapi::dpl::begin`` and ``oneapi::dpl::end`` (2,4)          |
+------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------+
|  ``param``                                           | Kernel configuration structure. ``data_per_workitem``,           |
|                                                      | can be any value among ``32``, ``64``, ``96``,..., ``k * 32``;   |
|                                                      | ``workgroup_size`` can be only ``64``.                           |
+------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------+

Return Value
------------

``sycl::event`` object representing a status of the algorithm execution.

> Memory usage

Author: Done

------------

> Local memory

Author: Done

~~~~~~~~~~~~

The local memory is allocated as shown in the pseudo-code blocks below:

- ``radix_sort`` (1,2):

  .. code:: python

     ranks = 2 * (2 ^ radix_bits) * workgroup_size + (2 * workgroup_size) + 4 * (2 ^ radix_bits)
     reorder = sizeof(key_type) * data_per_workitem * workgroup_size + 4 * (2 ^ radix_bits)
     allocated_bytes = round_up_to_nearest_multiple(max(ranks, reorder), 2048)

- ``radix_sort_by_key`` (3,4):

  .. code:: python

     ranks = 2 * (2 ^ radix_bits) * workgroup_size + (2 * workgroup_size) + 4 * (2 ^ radix_bits)
     reorder = (sizeof(key_type) + sizeof(value_type)) * data_per_workitem * workgroup_size + 4 * (2 ^ radix_bits)
     allocated_bytes = round_up_to_nearest_multiple(max(ranks, reorder), 2048)

The device must have enough local memory to execute the selected configuration.

> Global memory

Author: Done

   int main()
   {
      std::size_t n = 6;
      sycl::queue q{sycl::gpu_selector_v};
      sycl::buffer<std::uint32_t> keys{sycl::range<1>(n)};
      sycl::buffer<char> values{sycl::range<1>(n)};

      // initialize
      {
         sycl::host_accessor k_acc{keys, sycl::write_only};
         k_acc[0] = 3, k_acc[1] = 2, k_acc[2] = 1, k_acc[3] = 5, k_acc[4] = 3, k_acc[5] = 3;

         sycl::host_accessor v_acc{values, sycl::write_only};
         v_acc[0] = 'r', v_acc[1] = 'o', v_acc[2] = 's', v_acc[3] = 'd', v_acc[4] = 't', v_acc[5] = 'e';
      }

      // sort
      auto e = kt::esimd::radix_sort_by_key<true, 8>(q, keys, values, kt::kernel_param<96, 64>{}); // (3)
      e.wait();

      // print
      {
         sycl::host_accessor k_acc{keys, sycl::read_only};
         for(std::size_t i = 0; i < n; ++i)
               std::cout << k_acc[i] << ' ';
         std::cout << '\n';

         sycl::host_accessor v_acc{values, sycl::read_only};
         for(std::size_t i = 0; i < n; ++i)
               std::cout << v_acc[i] << ' ';
         std::cout << '\n';
      }

      return 0;
   }

**Output:**

.. code:: none

   1 2 3 3 3 5
   s o r t e d

> Recommended settings for the best performance

Author: I slightly renamed the title and capitalized its letters. Is it better than the previous one?

---------------------------------------------

> General advice is to set the configuration according to the performance measurements and profiling information.

Author: Thanks, I have applied the suggestion.

But the initial configuration may be selected according to these points:

> a. The number of elements to sort is small (~16K or less) and the algorithm is ``radix_sort``. The elements can be processed by a single work-group.

Author: This clarifies the points. I have applied the suggestion, thanks.

   - Increase ``param`` values, so ``N <= param.data_per_workitem * param.workgroup_size``.

b. The number of elements to sort is medium (between ~16K and ~1M). All the work-groups can execute simultaneously.

   - Make sure the device is saturated: ``param.data_per_workitem * param.workgroup_size ≈ N / device_xe_core_count``. Prefer larger ``param.workgroup_size`` in ``param.data_per_workitem * param.workgroup_size`` combination to reduce the number of work-groups and thus synchronization overhead.

c. The number of elements to sort is large (more than ~1M). The work-groups preempt each other.

   - Increase the occupancy to hide the latency: ``param.data_per_workitem * param.workgroup_size ≈< N / (device_xe_core_count * desired_occupancy)``. The occupancy depends on the local memory usage which is determined by ``key_type``, ``value_type``, ``radix_bits``, ``param.data_per_workitem`` and ``param.workgroup_size`` parameters. Refer to "Local memory usage" chapter for the calculation.

Limitations (may be relaxed in the future)
------------------------------------------

> - Algorithms can process only C++ integral and floating-point types with the width up to 64-bits (except for ``bool``).

Author: Done

- Number of elements to sort must not exceed `2^30`.
- ``radix_bits`` can only be `8`.
- ``param.data_per_workitem`` has discreteness of `32`.
- ``param.workgroup_size`` can only be `64`.

> - Local memory is always used to rank keys, reorder keys or key-value pairs which limits possible values of ``param.data_per_workitem`` and ``param.workgroup_size``.

Author: Done

- ``radix_sort_by_key`` does not have single-work-group implementation yet.

> Possible API extensions (may be implemented in the future)

Author: I have withdrawn these notes from the titles into a separate note.

----------------------------------------------------------

- Allow passing externally allocated memory.
- Allow passing dependent events.
- Allow passing a range of bits to sort.

> - Allow out-of-place sorting, e.g. with a double-buffer or an output sequence(s)

Reviewer: Please replace all instances of e.g. with for example:  

- Allow out-of-place sorting (for example, a double-buffer or an output sequence(s)).
- Allow configuration of kernels other than the most time-consuming kernel (for example, kernel computing histograms).
- Allow range transformations (for example, range pipes or transform iterators).

Author: Done

- Allow configuration of kernels other than the most time-consuming kernel (e.g. of a kernel computing histograms).
- Allow range transformations (e.g. range pipes or transform iterators).

> System requirements (coverage my be extended in the future)

Reviewer: Change to System Requirements. If it is important for user understanding, please add a sentence stating that the coverage may be extended in the future.

Author: Done.

-----------------------------------------------------------

- Hardware: Intel® Data Center GPU Max Series.

> - Compiler: Intel® oneAPI DPC++/C++ 2023.2 and newer.

Reviewer: Please use the full compiler name: Intel® oneAPI DPC++/C++ Compiler

Author: Done

> - OS: RHEL 9.2, SLES 15 SP5, Ubuntu 22.04. Other distributions and their versions listed in `<https://dgpu-docs.intel.com/driver/installation.html>`_ should be supported accordingly however they have not been tested.

Reviewer: Non-Intel OS should have an asterisk and be fully spelled out. My recommendation:
OS: 

- Red Hat Enterprise Linux* 9.2.
- SUSE Linux Enterprise Server* 15 SP5. 
- Ubuntu* 22.04. 
- Other distributions and their versions are listed in `<https://dgpu-docs.intel.com/driver/installation.html>`_ and should be supported accordingly, however they have not been tested.

Known Issues
------------

- Use of -g, -O0, -O1 compiler options may lead to compilation issues.

> - Combinations of ``param.data_per_workitem`` and ``param.work_group_size`` with large values may lead to device-code compilation errors due to allocation of local memory amounts beyond the device capabilities. Refer to "Local memory usage" paragraph for the details regarding allocation.

Reviewer: Which document are you referring to for Local Memory Usage? I don't see it in this guide. Are you referring to the Local Memory section above? If yes, please link to the content and use the same header wording. 

Update to: Refer to the Local Memory section for the details regarding allocation.

Author: I've added a link.

Radix Sort
##########

-----------------------------------------------------------
``radix_sort`` and ``radix_sort_by_key`` Function Templates
-----------------------------------------------------------

The ``radix_sort`` and ``radix_sort_by_key`` functions sort data using the radix sort algorithm.
The sorting is stable, ensuring the preservation of the relative order of elements with equal keys.
The functions implement Onesweep* [#fnote1]_ algorithm variant.

A synopsis of the ``radix_sort`` and ``radix_sort_by_key`` functions is provided below:

.. code:: cpp

   // defined in <oneapi/dpl/experimental/kernel_templates>

   namespace oneapi::dpl::experimental::kt::esimd {

   // Sort a single sequence

   template <bool IsAscending = true, std::uint8_t RadixBits = 8,
             typename KernelParam, typename Range>
   sycl::event
   radix_sort (sycl::queue q, Range&& rng, KernelParam param); // (1)

>    template <bool IsAscending = true,  std::uint8_t RadixBits = 8,
>              typename KernelParam, typename Iter>
>    sycl::event
>    radix_sort (sycl::queue q, Iter first, Iter last, KernelParam param); // (2)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   template <bool IsAscending = true,  std::uint8_t RadixBits = 8,
             typename KernelParam, typename Iterator>
   sycl::event
   radix_sort (sycl::queue q, Iterator first, Iterator last,
               KernelParam param); // (2)
```

   // Sort a sequence of keys and apply the same order to a sequence of values

   template <bool IsAscending = true, std::uint8_t RadixBits = 8,
             typename KernelParam, typename KeysRng, typename ValsRng>
   sycl::event
   radix_sort_by_key (sycl::queue q, KeysRng&& keys_rng,
                      ValsRng&& vals_rng, KernelParam param); // (3)

>    template <bool IsAscending = true, std::uint8_t RadixBits = 8,
>              typename KernelParam, typename KeysIter, typename ValsIter>
>    sycl::event
>    radix_sort_by_key (sycl::queue q, KeysIter keys_first, KeysIter keys_last,
>                       ValsIter vals_first, KernelParam param); // (4)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   template <bool IsAscending = true, std::uint8_t RadixBits = 8,
             typename KernelParam, typename Iterator1, typename Iterator2>
   sycl::event
   radix_sort_by_key (sycl::queue q, Iterator1 keys_first, Iterator1 keys_last,
                      Iterator2 values_first, KernelParam param); // (4)
```

+-----------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``std::uint8_t RadixBits``  | The number of bits to sort per a radix sort algorithm pass.                           |
|                             | Only ``8`` is currently supported.                                                    |
+-----------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

.. _parameters:

Parameters
----------

+-----------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Name                                          | Description                                                         |
+===============================================+=====================================================================+
|  ``q``                                        | SYCL* queue to submit the kernel template to.                       |
+-----------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+

> |                                               | The sequences of elements to apply the algorithm to.                |
> |  - ``rng`` (1)                                | Supported sequence types:                                           |
> |  - ``first``, ``last`` (2)                    |                                                                     |
> |  - ``keys_rng``, ``vals_rng`` (3)             | - ``sycl::buffer`` (1,3),                                           |
> |  - ``keys_first``, ``keys_last``,             | - ``oneapi::dpl::experimental::ranges::views::all`` (1,3)           |
> |    ``vals_first`` (4)                         | - ``oneapi::dpl::experimental::ranges::views::subrange`` (1,3)      |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|                                               | The sequences of elements to apply the algorithm to.                |
|  - ``r`` (1)                                  | Supported sequence types:                                           |
|  - ``first``, ``last`` (2)                    |                                                                     |
|  - ``keys``, ``values`` (3)                   | - ``sycl::buffer`` (1,3),                                           |
|  - ``keys_first``, ``keys_last``,             | - ``oneapi::dpl::experimental::ranges::views::all`` (1,3)           |
|    ``values_first`` (4)                       | - ``oneapi::dpl::experimental::ranges::views::subrange`` (1,3)      |
```

     It works for RadixBits = 8, the data_per_workitem >= 32 and workgroup_size >= 64.
     Reevaluate it, once bigger RadixBits, or smaller data_per_workitem and workgroup_size are supported.

Global Memory Requirements
--------------------------

The algorithms require memory for copying the input sequence(s) and some additional space to distribute elements.
The used amount depends on many parameters; below is an upper bound approximation:

- ``radix_sort``:
   N\ :sub:`1` + max (16KB, N\ :sub:`1`)
- ``radix_sort_by_key``:
   N\ :sub:`1` + N\ :sub:`2` + max (16KB, N\ :sub:`1`)

where the sequence with keys takes N\ :sub:`1` space and the sequence with values takes N\ :sub:`2` space.

  ..
     This is a rough upper bound approximation. High precision seems to be not necessary for global memory.
     It works for RadixBits <= 8, the data_per_workitem >= 32 and workgroup_size >= 64.
     Reevaluate it, once bigger RadixBits, or smaller data_per_workitem and workgroup_size are supported.

.. note::

   For ``N <= param.data_per_workitem * param.workgroup_size``, ``radix_sort`` is executed by a single work-group
   and does not use any global memory.

--------------
Usage Examples

> --------------

Author: Done

      e.wait();

      // print
      {
         sycl::host_accessor k_acc{keys, sycl::read_only};
         for(std::size_t i = 0; i < n; ++i)
               std::cout << k_acc[i] << ' ';
         std::cout << '\n';

         sycl::host_accessor v_acc{values, sycl::read_only};
         for(std::size_t i = 0; i < n; ++i)
               std::cout << v_acc[i] << ' ';
         std::cout << '\n';
      }

      return 0;
   }

**Output:**

.. code:: none

   1 2 3 3 3 5
   s o r t e d

-----------------------------------------
Recommended Settings for Best Performance
-----------------------------------------

The general advice is to set your configuration according to the performance measurements and profiling information.
The initial configuration may be selected according to these high-level guidelines:

- When the number of elements to sort is small (~16K or less) and the algorithm is ``radix_sort``,
  then the elements can be processed by a single-work-group sort, which generally outperforms multiple-work-group sort.
  Increase the ``param`` values, so ``N <= param.data_per_workitem * param.workgroup_size``,

>   where ``N`` is the number of elements to sort.

Author: The larger ``workgroup_size``, the higher overheads while synchronizing between the workitems. The larger ``data_per_workitem``, then higher register pressure. 
So, the advice would be to increase ``data_per_workitem`` first while there is enough register memory.

.. note::

   ``radix_sort_by_key`` does not have a single-work-group implementation yet.

- When the number of elements to sort is medium (between ~16K and ~1M),
  then all the work-groups can execute simultaneously.
  Make sure the device is saturated: ``param.data_per_workitem * param.workgroup_size ≈ N / device_xe_core_count``.

  ..
     TODO: add this part when param.workgroup_size supports more than one value:
     A larger ``param.workgroup_size`` in ``param.data_per_workitem * param.workgroup_size``

>      combination is preferred to reduce the number of work-groups and the synchronization overhead.

Author: It seems I made multiple mistakes in this comment (it is not going to be rendered). I have corrected them. 
This is about balancing `data_per_workitem` and `workgroup_size` and I supposed it was about it.

- When the number of elements to sort is large (more than ~1M), then the work-groups preempt each other.
  Increase the occupancy to hide the latency with ``param.data_per_workitem * param.workgroup_size ≈< N / (device_xe_core_count * desired_occupancy)``.
  The occupancy depends on the local memory usage, which is determined by
  ``key_type``, ``value_type``, ``RadixBits``, ``param.data_per_workitem`` and ``param.workgroup_size`` parameters.
  Refer to :ref:`Local Memory Requirements <local-memory>` section for the calculation.

.. note::

   ``param.data_per_workitem`` is the only available parameter to tune the performance,

>    since ``param.workgroup_size`` currently supports only one value (`64`).

Author: Moved.

>    since ``param.workgroup_size`` currently supports only one value (`64`).

Author: This might be a matter of taste, but I moved it back. 
Notes are better perceived when they are at the bottom of the section. There no notes between the bullets now, so this note should be associated with the whole section rather than with the last bullet.

                      ValuesRng&& values, KernelParam param); // (3)

   template <bool IsAscending = true, std::uint8_t RadixBits = 8,
             typename KernelParam, typename Iterator1, typename Iterator2>
   sycl::event
   radix_sort_by_key (sycl::queue q, Iterator1 keys_first, Iterator1 keys_last,
                      Iterator2 values_first, KernelParam param); // (4)

   }

.. _template-parameters:

Template Parameters
--------------------

+-----------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Name                        | Description                                                                           |
+=============================+=======================================================================================+
| ``bool IsAscending``        | The sort order. Ascending: ``true``; Descending: ``false``.                           |
+-----------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``std::uint8_t RadixBits``  | The number of bits to sort per a radix sort algorithm pass.                           |

> |                             | Only ``8`` is currently supported.                                                    |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
Mentioned below as a limitation.

+-----------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

.. _parameters:

Parameters
----------

+-----------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Name                                          | Description                                                         |
+===============================================+=====================================================================+

> |  ``q``                                        | SYCL* queue to submit the kernel template to.                       |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|  ``q``                                        | SYCL* queue to submit the kernels to.                               |
```

+-----------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+
|                                               | The sequences of elements to apply the algorithm to.                |
|  - ``r`` (1)                                  | Supported sequence types:                                           |
|  - ``first``, ``last`` (2)                    |                                                                     |

> |  - ``keys``, ``values`` (3)                   | - ``sycl::buffer`` (1,3),                                           |
> |  - ``keys_first``, ``keys_last``,             | - ``oneapi::dpl::experimental::ranges::views::all`` (1,3)           |
> |    ``values_first`` (4)                       | - ``oneapi::dpl::experimental::ranges::views::subrange`` (1,3)      |
> |                                               | - USM pointers (2,4)                                                |
> |                                               | - ``oneapi::dpl::begin`` and ``oneapi::dpl::end`` (2,4)             |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|  - ``keys``, ``values`` (3)                   | - ``sycl::buffer`` (1,3),                                           |
|  - ``keys_first``, ``keys_last``,             | - ``oneapi::dpl::experimental::ranges::views::all`` (1,3),          |
|    ``values_first`` (4)                       | - ``oneapi::dpl::experimental::ranges::views::subrange`` (1,3),     |
|                                               | - USM pointers (2,4),                                               |
|                                               | - ``oneapi::dpl::begin`` and ``oneapi::dpl::end`` (2,4).            |
```

|                                               |                                                                     |
+-----------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+
|  ``param``                                    | A :doc:`kernel_param <../kernel_configuration>` object.             |

> |                                               | Its ``data_per_workitem`` can be any value among                    |
> |                                               | ``32``, ``64``, ``96``,..., ``k * 32``.                             |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|                                               | Its ``data_per_workitem`` must be a positive multiple of 32.        |
```

|                                               |                                                                     |
|                                               |                                                                     |
+-----------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+

**Type Requirements**:

- The element type of sequence(s) to sort must be any
  C++ integral and floating-point type with a width of up to 64 bits, except for ``bool``.

.. note::

   Current limitations:

   - Number of elements to sort must not exceed `2^30`.
   - ``RadixBits`` can only be `8`.
   - ``param.workgroup_size`` can only be `64`.

Return Value
------------

A ``sycl::event`` object representing the status of the algorithm execution.

-------------------
Memory Requirements
-------------------

The device must have enough global (USM device) and local (SLM) memory.
Otherwise, undefined behavior will occur and the algorithm may fail.

> The algorithms allocate the memory according to the rules in the subsections below.

Author: Applied (implicitly).

Radix Sort
##########

All API on this section reside in ``oneapi::dpl::experimental::kt`` namespace and
are available through inclusion of ``oneapi/dpl/experimental/kernel_templates`` header file
This namespace is omitted in the rest of the page, while the nested namespaces are specified.

--------------------------------------------------
``radix_sort`` and ``radix_sort_by_key`` Interface
--------------------------------------------------

The functions sort data using the radix sort algorithm. For a small number of elements to sort, they invoke a single-work-group implementation;

> otherwise, they use a multiple-work-group implementation based on the Onesweep* [#fnote1]_ algorithm variant.

Reviewer: This seems like it would be good for our users.

|                                                      | - ``oneapi::dpl::experimental::ranges::views::subrange`` (1,3)   |
|                                                      | - USM pointer (2,4)                                              |
|                                                      | - ``oneapi::dpl::begin`` and ``oneapi::dpl::end`` (2,4)          |
+------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------+
|  ``param``                                           | Kernel configuration structure. ``data_per_workitem``,           |
|                                                      | can be any value among ``32``, ``64``, ``96``,..., ``k * 32``;   |
|                                                      | ``workgroup_size`` can be only ``64``.                           |
+------------------------------------------------------+------------------------------------------------------------------+

Return Value
------------

``sycl::event`` object representing a status of the algorithm execution.

> Memory Usage

Reviewer 3: If the single workgroup implementation requires a different amount of memory than the multi-workgroup implementation, we should probably choose our language accordingly, "may allocate up to" or "may require up to".  

If we think it is worthwhile to be fully transparent with this info for performance sake, perhaps we could list the memory requirements for each (although, perhaps that is too much and should only be done if we expose the individual algorithms with individual KT).

Reviewer 3: @dmitriy-sobolev how do the single workgroup implementation memory needs compare to the multi workgroup implementation?  (For local and global memory)
If the single workgroup version requires more memory for either in any situation, that certainly needs to be included.  If it is always lower requirements for both types of memory, I think we can omit it.

Author: Single workgroup implementation does not allocate temporary global memory. It allocates local memory, but slightly different from multiple workgroup implementation. I will document it.

Author: It's been documented.

> Memory Usage

Reviewer 3: Should we discuss this as "Temporary Memory Requirements" instead of "Memory Usage"?
I'm not sure what is best.

Reviewer: If they are requirements, then we should label them that way to reduce confusion. I did not read either section as containing a "requirement", so I don't know if we need to change the wording. If we do change the wording, "Temporary Memory Requirements" and "Local Memory Requirements" seems reasonable.

Reviewer 3: I'm not sure the correct terminology necessarily here:
To try to explain further:

It is required that the algorithm be run on a device which has space to allocate the memory as described by the formula.  If they try to run it on a device which doesn't have that data, the algorithm will fail to allocate this data and undefined behavior will occur.

Reviewer: That sounds like a requirement to me, but I feel like that is covered by the sentence below the example in Local Memory: "The device must have enough local memory to execute the selected configuration." Maybe we just need to add a similar sentence to the Global Memory section. If "requirements" isn't working we can always go with "parameters".

------------

.. _local-memory:

> Local Memory

Reviewer 3: Should this be "Local Memory Requirements"?

Reviewer: See previous comment.

Author: I've changed it

~~~~~~~~~~~~

> The local memory is allocated as shown in the pseudo-code blocks below:

Reviewer 3: For clarity I suggest we be more explicit here, and add some verbosity:

"The algorithms require local (SLM) memory, and will allocate this memory according to the following formulas, where `workgroup_size`, and `data_per_workitem` are part of the `kernel_param` structure (link), and `RadixBits`, is a template parameter to the API, and `key_type`, `val_type` are the `value_type` of the input keys, values respectively."

`radix_bits` would need to be `RadixBits` to match the API, and `value_type` would change to `val_type` to remove ambiguity as we describe the `value_type` of certain ranges / iterators.

Author: Thanks, I've applied the suggestion

- ``radix_sort`` (1,2):

  .. code:: python

     ranks = 2 * (2 ^ radix_bits) * workgroup_size + (2 * workgroup_size) + 4 * (2 ^ radix_bits)
     reorder = sizeof(key_type) * data_per_workitem * workgroup_size + 4 * (2 ^ radix_bits)
     allocated_bytes = round_up_to_nearest_multiple(max(ranks, reorder), 2048)

- ``radix_sort_by_key`` (3,4):

  .. code:: python

     ranks = 2 * (2 ^ radix_bits) * workgroup_size + (2 * workgroup_size) + 4 * (2 ^ radix_bits)
     reorder = (sizeof(key_type) + sizeof(value_type)) * data_per_workitem * workgroup_size + 4 * (2 ^ radix_bits)
     allocated_bytes = round_up_to_nearest_multiple(max(ranks, reorder), 2048)

The device must have enough local memory to execute the selected configuration.

> Global Memory

Reviewer 3: "Global Memory Requirements"?

Author: I've changed it

~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> The global (USM device) memory is allocated as shown in the pseudo-code blocks below:

Reviewer 3: I think a similarly verbose description similar to my comment about local memory above may be helpful.

Also, we use `..._bytes` for both of the intermediate "variables" here, but not above, perhaps we should add `_bytes` above for consistency.

Author: Thanks, done

      sycl::buffer<char> values{sycl::range<1>(n)};

      // initialize
      {
         sycl::host_accessor k_acc{keys, sycl::write_only};
         k_acc[0] = 3, k_acc[1] = 2, k_acc[2] = 1, k_acc[3] = 5, k_acc[4] = 3, k_acc[5] = 3;

         sycl::host_accessor v_acc{values, sycl::write_only};
         v_acc[0] = 'r', v_acc[1] = 'o', v_acc[2] = 's', v_acc[3] = 'd', v_acc[4] = 't', v_acc[5] = 'e';
      }

      // sort
      auto e = kt::esimd::radix_sort_by_key<true, 8>(q, keys, values, kt::kernel_param<96, 64>{}); // (3)
      e.wait();

      // print
      {
         sycl::host_accessor k_acc{keys, sycl::read_only};
         for(std::size_t i = 0; i < n; ++i)
               std::cout << k_acc[i] << ' ';
         std::cout << '\n';

         sycl::host_accessor v_acc{values, sycl::read_only};
         for(std::size_t i = 0; i < n; ++i)
               std::cout << v_acc[i] << ' ';
         std::cout << '\n';
      }

      return 0;
   }

**Output:**

.. code:: none

   1 2 3 3 3 5
   s o r t e d

-----------------------------------------
Recommended Settings for Best Performance
-----------------------------------------

> The general advice is to set your configuration according to the performance measurements and profiling information. The initial configuration may be selected according to these points:

Reviewer 3: "points" -> "high-level guidelines"?

Author: I've added "high-level guidelines".

> - When the number of elements to sort is small (~16K or less) and the algorithm is ``radix_sort``, then the elements can be processed by a single work-group. Increase the param values, so ``N <= param.data_per_workitem * param.workgroup_size``.

Reviewer 3: To complete this thought, I think we should add a sentence like:
"Where possible, single work-group sort should outperform `multiple-work-group` sort."

Reviewer: What do you mean by "where possible"?

Reviewer 3: "Where single workgroup sort is possible, it should outperform multiple work group sort."

Basically, when a use case *can* fit into single workgroup, we they should use settings to do that.  In the current wording, it is implied but not explicitly stated.

Reviewer: Thank you, that makes sense. I think stating it explicitly would be clearer.

- When the number of elements to sort is large (more than ~1M), then the work-groups preempt each other. Increase the occupancy to hide the latency with ``param.data_per_workitem * param.workgroup_size ≈< N / (device_xe_core_count * desired_occupancy)``. The occupancy depends on the local memory usage, which is determined by ``key_type``, ``value_type``, ``radix_bits``, ``param.data_per_workitem`` and ``param.workgroup_size`` parameters. Refer to :ref:`Local Memory <local-memory>` section for the calculation.

.. _limitations:

-----------
Limitations
-----------

- Algorithms can only process C++ integral and floating-point types with a width of up to 64 bits (except for ``bool``).
- Number of elements to sort must not exceed `2^30`.
- ``radix_bits`` can only be `8`.
- ``param.data_per_workitem`` has discreteness of `32`.

> - ``param.workgroup_size`` can only be `64`.

Reviewer 3: Should we provide a note in the "Recommended Settings for Best Performance" section that `workgroup_size` is fixed at 64, and therefore the only "knob" users currently have access to in order to follow these guidelines is `data_per_workitem`?

Reviewer: Adding a note of explanation makes sense to me.

Author: I think it is better to simplify this section omitting `workgroup_size` parameter. I will preserve the current description in case of adding more options for `workgroup_size`.

Author: I'he added a note

- Local memory is always used to rank keys, reorder keys, or key-value pairs, which limits possible values of ``param.data_per_workitem`` and ``param.workgroup_size``
- ``radix_sort_by_key`` does not have single-work-group implementation yet.

.. _possible-api-extensions:

-----------------------
Possible API Extensions
-----------------------

- Allow passing externally allocated memory.
- Allow passing dependent events.
- Allow passing a range of bits to sort.
- Allow out-of-place sorting (for example, through a double-buffer or an output sequence).
- Allow configuration of kernels other than the most time-consuming kernel (for example, of a kernel computing histograms).

> - Allow range transformations (for example, range pipes or transform iterators).

Reviewer 3: If we include this section, should we provide some method for users to provide feedback on which possible / future extensions would be most important to them?

Otherwise, I'm not sure how relevant this section is to be user-facing.  As far as I know, they are not concrete enough plans for users to "plan" around.  I do think getting feedback here could be valuable though.

Reviewer: I read this as these APIs are currently available, but I agree it should be removed if this is just a list of what could be.

Reviewer 3: As far as I understand, it is a list of possible future avenues of extension which do not currently exist.  Since this is experimental, the API may shift as we add features.

Reviewer: If we don't already have the APIs, I don't think we should highlight them.

Author: I've removed that section. 

As for the feedback, I think, users can open an issue. I can create a note for it.

Reviewer: If you do add a note, please direct users to the Contributing page: https://github.com/oneapi-src/oneDPL/blob/release_oneDPL/CONTRIBUTING.md

Radix Sort
##########

-----------------------------------------------------------
``radix_sort`` and ``radix_sort_by_key`` Function Templates
-----------------------------------------------------------

The ``radix_sort`` and ``radix_sort_by_key`` functions sort data using the radix sort algorithm.
The sorting is stable, ensuring the preservation of the relative order of elements with equal keys.

> The functions implement Onesweep* [#fnote1]_ algorithm variant.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The functions implement a Onesweep* [#fnote1]_ algorithm variant.
```

             typename KernelParam, typename KeysRng, typename ValuesRng>
   sycl::event
   radix_sort_by_key (sycl::queue q, KeysRng&& keys,
                      ValuesRng&& values, KernelParam param); // (3)

   template <bool IsAscending = true, std::uint8_t RadixBits = 8,
             typename KernelParam, typename Iterator1, typename Iterator2>
   sycl::event
   radix_sort_by_key (sycl::queue q, Iterator1 keys_first, Iterator1 keys_last,
                      Iterator2 values_first, KernelParam param); // (4)

   }

.. _template-parameters:

Template Parameters
--------------------

+-----------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Name                        | Description                                                                           |
+=============================+=======================================================================================+
| ``bool IsAscending``        | The sort order. Ascending: ``true``; Descending: ``false``.                           |
+-----------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

> | ``std::uint8_t RadixBits``  | The number of bits to sort per a radix sort algorithm pass.                           |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| ``std::uint8_t RadixBits``  | The number of bits to sort for each radix sort algorithm pass.                           |
```

+===============================================+=====================================================================+
|  ``q``                                        | SYCL* queue to submit the kernels to.                               |
+-----------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+
|                                               | The sequences of elements to apply the algorithm to.                |
|  - ``r`` (1)                                  | Supported sequence types:                                           |
|  - ``first``, ``last`` (2)                    |                                                                     |
|  - ``keys``, ``values`` (3)                   | - ``sycl::buffer`` (1,3),                                           |
|  - ``keys_first``, ``keys_last``,             | - ``oneapi::dpl::experimental::ranges::views::all`` (1,3),          |
|    ``values_first`` (4)                       | - ``oneapi::dpl::experimental::ranges::views::subrange`` (1,3),     |
|                                               | - USM pointers (2,4),                                               |

> |                                               | - ``oneapi::dpl::begin`` and ``oneapi::dpl::end`` (2,4).            |

Reviewer 3: For USM pointers and `begin()`, `end()`, we should link to the corresponding section on the "Pass Data to Algorithms" page.

Author: I've done it. I also referenced a section with oneDPL's viewable ranges.

|                                               |                                                                     |
+-----------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+
|  ``param``                                    | A :doc:`kernel_param <../kernel_configuration>` object.             |
|                                               | Its ``data_per_workitem`` must be a positive multiple of 32.        |
|                                               |                                                                     |
|                                               |                                                                     |
+-----------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+

**Type Requirements**:

- The element type of sequence(s) to sort must be any

>   C++ integral and floating-point type with a width of up to 64 bits, except for ``bool``.

Reviewer 3: I would change "must be any" to:
"may be any",

Alternatively, you could say something like:
"The element type of sequence(s) to sort must be a C++ integral and floating-point type other than ``bool`` with a width of up to 64 bits."

Reviewer 3: I edited above to catch missed "and" -> "or" suggestion.

         sycl::host_accessor v_acc{values, sycl::write_only};
         v_acc[0] = 'r', v_acc[1] = 'o', v_acc[2] = 's', v_acc[3] = 'd', v_acc[4] = 't', v_acc[5] = 'e';
      }

      // sort
      auto e = kt::esimd::radix_sort_by_key<true, 8>(q, keys, values, kt::kernel_param<96, 64>{}); // (3)
      e.wait();

      // print
      {
         sycl::host_accessor k_acc{keys, sycl::read_only};
         for(std::size_t i = 0; i < n; ++i)
               std::cout << k_acc[i] << ' ';
         std::cout << '\n';

         sycl::host_accessor v_acc{values, sycl::read_only};
         for(std::size_t i = 0; i < n; ++i)
               std::cout << v_acc[i] << ' ';
         std::cout << '\n';
      }

      return 0;
   }

**Output:**

.. code:: none

   1 2 3 3 3 5
   s o r t e d

.. _memory-requirements:

-------------------
Memory Requirements
-------------------

The algorithms use global and local device memory (see `SYCL 2020 Specification
<https://registry.khronos.org/SYCL/specs/sycl-2020/html/sycl-2020.html#_sycl_device_memory_model>`_)
for intermediate data storage. For the algorithms to operate correctly, there must be enough memory

> on the device; otherwise, the behavior is undefined. How much memory is needed depends on input data
> and configuration parameters, as described below.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
on the device; otherwise, the behavior is undefined. The amount of memory that is required 
depends on input data and configuration parameters, as described below.
```

Radix Sort
##########

-----------------------------------------------------------
``radix_sort`` and ``radix_sort_by_key`` Function Templates
-----------------------------------------------------------

The ``radix_sort`` and ``radix_sort_by_key`` functions sort data using the radix sort algorithm.
The sorting is stable, ensuring the preservation of the relative order of elements with equal keys.
The functions implement Onesweep* [#fnote1]_ algorithm variant.

A synopsis of the ``radix_sort`` and ``radix_sort_by_key`` functions is provided below:

.. code:: cpp

   // defined in <oneapi/dpl/experimental/kernel_templates>

   namespace oneapi::dpl::experimental::kt::esimd {

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

// Sort a single sequence
```

Author: Done

>    template <bool IsAscending = true, std::uint8_t RadixBits = 8, typename KernelParam, typename Range>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   template <bool IsAscending = true, std::uint8_t RadixBits = 8,
             typename KernelParam, typename Range>
```
to avoid horizontal scrolling in the rendered code block.

Author: Done

   sycl::event

>    radix_sort(sycl::queue q, Range&& rng, KernelParam param); // (1)

Reviewer 2: I prefer the function name to be visibly distinct from its parameters. The simplest way is to add a space after the name.
```suggestion
   radix_sort (sycl::queue q, Range&& rng, KernelParam param); // (1)
```

Author: Done

   template <bool IsAscending = true,  std::uint8_t RadixBits = 8, typename KernelParam, typename Iter>
   sycl::event
   radix_sort(sycl::queue q, Iter first, Iter last, KernelParam param); // (2)

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

// Sort a sequence of keys and apply the same order to a sequence of values
```

Author: Done

>    template <bool IsAscending = true, std::uint8_t RadixBits = 8, typename KernelParam, typename KeysRng, typename ValsRng>
>    sycl::event
>    radix_sort_by_key(sycl::queue q, KeysRng&& keys_rng, ValsRng&& vals_rng, KernelParam param); // (3)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   template <bool IsAscending = true, std::uint8_t RadixBits = 8,
             typename KernelParam, typename Range1, typename Range2>
   sycl::event
   radix_sort_by_key (sycl::queue q, Range1&& keys, Range2&& values, KernelParam param); // (3)
```
Similarly for (4)

Author: I've also split the function to avoid scrolling. The proposed line slightly bigger than necessary.

+-----------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``std::uint8_t RadixBits``  | The number of bits to sort per a radix sort algorithm pass.                           |
|                             | Only ``8`` is currently supported.                                                    |
+-----------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

.. _parameters:

Parameters
----------

+-----------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+
| Name                                          | Description                                                         |
+===============================================+=====================================================================+
|  ``q``                                        | SYCL* queue to submit the kernel template to.                       |
+-----------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+

> |                                               | The sequences(s) of elements to apply the algorithm to.             |
> |  - ``rng`` (1)                                | They can be provided as:                                            |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|                                               | The sequences of elements to apply the algorithm to.                |
|  - ``rng`` (1)                                | Supported sequence types:                                           |
```

|  - ``first``, ``last`` (2)                    |                                                                     |
|  - ``keys_rng``, ``vals_rng`` (3)             | - ``sycl::buffer`` (1,3),                                           |
|  - ``keys_first``, ``keys_last``,             | - ``oneapi::dpl::experimental::ranges::views::all`` (1,3)           |
|    ``vals_first`` (4)                         | - ``oneapi::dpl::experimental::ranges::views::subrange`` (1,3)      |

> |                                               | - USM pointer (2,4)                                                 |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|                                               | - USM pointers (2,4)                                                |
```

|                                               | - ``oneapi::dpl::begin`` and ``oneapi::dpl::end`` (2,4)             |
|                                               |                                                                     |
+-----------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+
|  ``param``                                    | A :doc:`kernel_param <../kernel_configuration>` object.             |
|                                               | Its ``data_per_workitem`` can be any value among                    |
|                                               | ``32``, ``64``, ``96``,..., ``k * 32``.                             |
|                                               | Its ``workgroup_size`` can only be ``64``.                          |
|                                               |                                                                     |
+-----------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+

Return Value
------------

> ``sycl::event`` object representing a status of the algorithm execution.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A ``sycl::event`` object representing the status of the algorithm execution.
```

+-----------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+
|  ``param``                                    | A :doc:`kernel_param <../kernel_configuration>` object.             |
|                                               | Its ``data_per_workitem`` can be any value among                    |
|                                               | ``32``, ``64``, ``96``,..., ``k * 32``.                             |
|                                               |                                                                     |
|                                               |                                                                     |
+-----------------------------------------------+---------------------------------------------------------------------+

**Type Requirements**:

- The element type of sequence(s) to sort must be any
  C++ integral and floating-point type with a width of up to 64 bits, except for ``bool``.

.. note::

   - Number of elements to sort must not exceed `2^30`.
   - ``RadixBits`` can only be `8`.

>    - ``param.workgroup_size`` can only be `64`.

Author: Done

Memory Requirements
-------------------

The device must have enough global (USM device) and local (SLM) memory.
Otherwise, undefined behavior will occur and the algorithm may fail.

> They allocalte this memory according to the formulas in the sub-sections below, where:

Reviewer 3: allocalte -> allocate

Author: Fixed

The device must have enough global (USM device) and local (SLM) memory.
Otherwise, undefined behavior will occur and the algorithm may fail.

The algorithms allocate the memory according to the rules in the subsections below.

.. _local-memory:

Local Memory Requirements
-------------------------

The algorithms require local memory to rank keys, reorder keys, or key-value pairs.
The used amount depends on many parameters; below is an upper bound approximation:

- ``radix_sort``:
  max (36KB, sizeof(key_type) * data_per_workitem * workgroup_size) + 2KB)
- ``radix_sort_by_key``:

>   max (36KB, (sizeof(key_type) + sizeof(val_type) * data_per_workitem * workgroup_size) + 2KB)

Author: Fixed

  ..
     This is an upper bound approximation, which is close to the real value.
     High precision is essential as SLM usage has high impact on performance.
     It works for RadixBits = 8, the data_per_workitem >= 32 and workgroup_size >= 64.
     Reevaluate it, once bigger RadixBits, or smaller data_per_workitem and workgroup_size are supported.

Global Memory Requirements
--------------------------

The algorithms require memory for copying the input sequence(s) and some additional space to distribute elements.
The used amount depends on many parameters; below is an upper bound approximation:

- ``radix_sort``:
  N\ :sub:`1` + max (16KB, N\ :sub:`1`)
- ``radix_sort_by_key``:
  N\ :sub:`1` + N\ :sub:`2` + max (16KB, N\ :sub:`1`)

where the sequence with keys takes N\ :sub:`1` space and the sequence with values takes N\ :sub:`2` space.

  ..
     This is a rough upper bound approximation. High precision seems to be not necessary for global memory.
     It works for RadixBits <= 8, the data_per_workitem >= 32 and workgroup_size >= 64.
     Reevaluate it, once bigger RadixBits, or smaller data_per_workitem and workgroup_size are supported.

.. note::

>    ``radix_sort`` has a single-work-group case (``N <= data_per_workitem * workgroup_size``), which
>    does not impose any global memory requirements.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   For ``N <= data_per_workitem * workgroup_size``, ``radix_sort`` is executed by a single work-group
   and does not use any global memory.
```

- ``radix_sort_by_key``:

  max (36KB, (sizeof(``key_type``) + sizeof(``value_type``)) * ``param.data_per_workitem`` * ``param.workgroup_size`` + 2KB)

where ``key_type``, ``value_type`` are the types of the input keys, values respectively.

..
   This is an upper bound approximation, which is close to the real value.
   High precision is essential as SLM usage has high impact on performance.
   It works for RadixBits = 8, the data_per_workitem >= 32 and workgroup_size >= 64.
   Reevaluate it, once bigger RadixBits, or smaller data_per_workitem and workgroup_size are supported.

-----------------------------------------
Recommended Settings for Best Performance
-----------------------------------------

The general advice is to choose kernel parameters based on performance measurements and profiling information.
The initial configuration may be selected according to these high-level guidelines:

..
   TODO: add this part when param.workgroup_size supports more than one value:
   A larger ``param.data_per_workitem`` in ``param.data_per_workitem * param.workgroup_size``
   combination is preferred to reduce the number of work-items and synchronization overhead within a work-group.

> - When the number of elements to sort is small (~16K or less) and the algorithm is ``radix_sort`` (``radix_sort_by_key`` does not have a single work-group implementation yet),

Author: I have removed it.

  generally sorting is done more efficiently by a single work-group.
  Increase the ``param`` values to make ``N <= param.data_per_workitem * param.workgroup_size``,

>   where ``N`` is the number of elements to sort.

Author: Thanks. I've added it.

- When the number of elements to sort ``N`` is between 16K and 1M, utilizing all available
  compute cores is key for better performance. Allow creating enough work chunks to feed all
  X\ :sup:`e`-cores [#fnote2]_ on a GPU: ``param.data_per_workitem * param.workgroup_size ≈ N / xe_core_count``.

> - When the number of elements to sort is large (more than ~1M),
>   maximizing a number of elements processed by a work-group, which is determined by ``param.data_per_workitem * param.workgroup_size`` product,
>   reduces synchronization overheads between the work-groups, and usually benefits the overall performance.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- When the number of elements to sort is large (more than ~1M), maximizing the number of elements
  processed by a work-group, which equals to ``param.data_per_workitem * param.workgroup_size``,
  reduces synchronization overheads between work-groups and usually benefits the overall performance.
```

  Increase the ``param`` values, so ``N <= param.data_per_workitem * param.workgroup_size``,
  where ``N`` is the number of elements to sort.

.. note::

>    ``radix_sort_by_key`` does not have single-work-group implementation yet.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   ``radix_sort_by_key`` does not have a single-work-group implementation yet.
```
